title: IT Greening
presenter: Ioannis Kamitsos
date: 2016-07-20
category: seminars

This talk will focus on a few recent research results on greening of the
Information and Communication Technology.  In the first part, I will
demonstrate how resource pooling can be exploited to optimize the
tradeoff between two intrinsically conflicting objectives in cloud
computing – energy consumption and delay performance. I will then
present how we extend our optimal energy conserving techniques to the
case of DSL broadband access and show how our approach results in a more
energy efﬁcient and stable DSL operation compared to existing Broadband
Forum power saving policies. Finally, I will demonstrate an analytic
framework that helps data center operators minimize day-to-day
operational costs (such as electricity and bandwidth costs), based on
processing jobs characteristics, as well as optimally expand their data
center network based on predictions of future operational costs.

Ioannis Kamitsos is a Senior Software Engineer with Bloomberg LP, New
York. He received the Diploma degree in electrical and computer
engineering from the National Technical University of Athens, Greece, in
2006, and the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Princeton University,
Princeton, NJ, USA, in 2009 and 2012, respectively. During the summer of
2010, he interned at the Standards and RF Laboratory, Samsung
Telecommunications America, Richardson, TX, USA. His research interests
include optimization theory, optimal control, and machine learning/big
data analytics.
