title: How to Train Your Browser: Preventing XSS Attacks Using Contextual Script Fingerprints
presenter: Dimitris Mitropoulos
date: 2016-12-14
category: seminars

Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) is one of the most common web application
vulnerabilities. It is therefore sometimes referred to as the “buffer
overflow of the web.” Drawing a parallel from the current state of
practice in preventing unauthorized native code execution (the typical
goal in a code injection), we propose a script whitelisting approach to
tame JavaScript-driven XSS attacks. Our scheme involves a transparent
script interception layer placed in the browser’s JavaScript engine.
This layer is designed to detect every script that reaches the browser,
from every possible route, and compare it to a list of valid scripts for
the site or page being accessed; scripts not on the list are prevented
from executing. To avoid the false positives caused by minor syntactic
changes (e.g., due to dynamic code generation), our layer uses the
concept of contextual fingerprints when comparing scripts.

Contextual fingerprints are identifiers that represent specific elements
of a script and its execution context. Fingerprints can be easily
enriched with new elements, if needed, to enhance the proposed method’s
robustness. The list can be populated by the website’s administrators or
a trusted third party. To verify our approach, we have developed a
prototype and tested it successfully against an extensive array of
attacks that were performed on more than 50 real-world vulnerable web
applications. We measured the browsing performance overhead of the
proposed solution on eight websites that make heavy use of JavaScript.
Our mechanism imposed an average overhead of 11.1% on the execution time
of the JavaScript engine. When measured as part of a full browsing
session, and for all tested websites, the overhead introduced by our
layer was less than 0.05%. When script elements are altered or new
scripts are added on the server side, a new fingerprint generation phase
is required. To examine the temporal aspect of contextual fingerprints,
we performed a short-term and a long-term experiment based on the same
websites. The former, showed that in a short period of time (10 days),
for seven of eight websites, the majority of valid fingerprints stay the
same (more than 92% on average). The latter, though, indicated that, in
the long run, the number of fingerprints that do not change is reduced.
Both experiments can be seen as one of the first attempts to study the
feasibility of a whitelisting approach for the web.

