title: Analyzing and understanding in depth malicious browser extensions
date: 2016-06-30
presenter: Alexandros Kapravelos
category: seminars

In this talk I’m going to present Hulk, a dynamic analysis system that
detects malicious behavior in browser extensions by monitoring their
execution and corresponding network activity. Hulk’s novelty derives
from how it elicits malicious behavior in extensions with dynamic pages
that adapt to an extension’s expectations in web page structure and
content and by fuzzing extensions event handlers. The second part of the
talk is going to be focused on a particular malicious activity deriving
from browser extensions: ad injection. In our experiments we found that
ad injection is affecting more than 5% of the daily unique IP addresses
accessing Google, affecting this way tens of millions of users around
the globe.

Alexandros Kapravelos is an Assistant Professor in the Department of
Computer Science at North Carolina State University. His research
interests lie in the area of computer security and he is particularly
interested in browser security and building systems that solve security
problems. In the past, he was the lead developer of Wepawet, a publicly
available system that detects drive-by downloads with the use of an
emulated browser, and Revolver, a system that detects evasive drive-by
download attempts. He is currently interested in internet-wide attacks
that compromise the users’ security, building scalable systems to
protect users and improving privacy on the web.
