title: Technologies for main memory data analysis
presenter: Marios Fragkoulis
date: 2017-03-02
category: seminars

The absence of suitable analytical tools hinders knowledge extraction
in cases of software applications that do not need the support of a
database system. Some examples are applications whose data have a
complex structure and are often stored in files, eg scientific
applications in areas such as biology, and applications that do
not maintain permanent data, such as data visualization applications
and diagnostic tools. Databases offer widely used and recognized query
interfaces, but applications that do not need the services of a database
should not resort to this solution only to satisfy the need to analyze
their data.
The thesis studies the methods and technologies for supporting queries
on main memory data and how the widespread architecture of software
systems currently affects technologies. Based on the findings from
the literature we develop a method and a technology to perform
interactive queries on data that reside in main memory. After an
overview of the programming languages that fit the data analysis
we choose SQL, the standard data manipulation language for decades.
The method we develop represents programming data structures in relational
terms as requires SQL. Our method replaces the associations between
structures with relationships between relational representations.
The result is a virtual relational schema of the programming data model,
which we call relational representation.
The implementation, which we carried out in C/C++, includes a domain specific
language for describing relational representations, a compiler that generates
the source code of the relational interface to the programming data structures
given a relational specification, and the implementation of SQLite’s virtual
table API.
The overall evaluation of our approach involves its integration in three C++
software applications, in the Linux kernel, and in Valgrind, where we also
perform a user study with students. We find a) that our approach exhibits greater
expressiveness than C++ queries, b) real problems in the Linux kernel,
c) opportunities for space and performance optimizations in applications
instrumented by Valgrind, and d) that it took users less time to draft queries
with SQL than with Python.
