title: Big Data Mediation: Α Conceptual Data Model and an Algebraic Framework for Efficient Dataframe Processing
presenter: Damianos Chatziantoniou
date: 2018-02-21
category: seminars


Most analytics projects focus on the management of the 3Vs of big 
data and use specific stacks to support this variety. However, they 
constrain themselves to ''local'' data, data that exists within or 
''close'' to the organization. And yet, as it has been recently 
pointed out, ''the value of data explodes when it can be linked with 
other data.'' In this paper we present our vision for a global 
marketplace of analytics---either in the form of per-entity metrics 
or per-entity data, provided by globally accessible data management 
tasks---where a data scientist can pick and combine data at will in 
her data mining algorithms, possibly combining with her own data. 
The main idea is to use the *dataframe*, a popular data 
structure in R and Python. Currently, the columns of a dataframe 
contain computations or data found within the data infrastructure of 
the organization. We propose to extend the concept of a column. A 
column is now a collection of key-value pairs, produced anywhere by 
a remotely accessed program (e.g., an SQL query, a MapReduce job, 
even a continuous query.) The key is used for the outer join with 
the existing dataframe, the value is the content of the column. This 
whole process should be orchestrated by a set of well-defined, 
standardized APIs. We argue that the proposed architecture presents 
numerous challenges and could be beneficial for big data 
interoperability. In addition, it can be used to build mediation 
systems involving local or global columns. Columns correspond to 
attributes of entities, where the primary key of the entity is the 
key of the involved columns.

