title: Java Decompiler using Machine Translation Techniques
presenter: Christos Chatzilenas
date: 2018-07-10
category: seminars

A decompiler is a computer program that takes as input an
executable file and produces a high-level source code file which 
can be recompiled successfully.
Even though a decompiler may not always reconstruct perfectly the
original source code, it remains an important tool 
for reverse engineering of computer software.
The process of decompilation is very useful for the recovery of 
lost source code, for analyzing and understanding software whose 
code is not available, even for computer security in some cases.
In this thesis, in order to address the decompilation problem we 
transform it to a translation problem which can be solved using
machine translation.
Two approaches are studied, statistical and neural machine 
translation, using two open-source tools Moses and OpenNMT,
respectively.
Maven repositories are retrieved from GitHub in order to form the
dataset and an appropriate procedure is used to construct the 
parallel corpora.
In this context experiments in Moses are not successful while
the result of translation using neural machine translation, is
fairly good.
The difference between the decompiler presented in this thesis and
existing Java decompilers is the fact that it can translate isolated
bytecode snippets.
Furthermore, this approach can be extended to produce better results
by recovering comments, variables, methods and class names.
Finally, this study illustrates that the Java source code which is 
produced from the decompilation is often accurate and can provide
a useful picture of the snippets' behavior.
