title: Speech quality and sentiment analysis on the Hellenic Parliament proceedings
presenter: Konstantina Dritsa
date: 2018-07-10
category: seminars

Abstract: “It's not what you say, but how you say it”. How often have
you heard that phrase? Have you ever wished that you could take an
objective and comprehensive look into what is said and how it is said
in politics? Within this project, we examined the records of the
Hellenic Parliament sittings from 1989 up to 2017 in order to evaluate
the speech quality and examine the palette of sentiments that
characterize the communication among its members. The readability of
the speeches is evaluated with the use of the “Simple Measure of
Gobbledygook” (SMOG) formula, partially adjusted to the Greek
language. The sentiment mining is achieved with the use of two Greek
sentiment lexicons. Our findings indicate a significant drop on the
average readability score of the parliament records from 2003 up
to 2017. On the other hand, the sentiment analysis presents steady
scores throughout the years. The communication among parliament
members is characterized mainly by the feeling of surprise followed
closely by anger and disgust. At the same time our results show a
steady prevalence of positive words over negative. The results are
presented in graphs, mainly in comparison between political parties as
well as between time intervals.
