title: Search Engine Similarity Analysis - A Combined Content and Rankings Approach
presenter: Konstantina Dritsa
date: 2020-10-16
category: seminars

Abstract: How different are search engines? The search engine wars are a
favorite topic of on-line analysts, as two of the biggest companies in
the world, Google and Microsoft, battle for prevalence of the web search
space.Differences in search engine popularity can be explained by their
effectiveness or other factors, such as familiarity with the most
popular first engine, peer imitation, or force of habit. In this work we
present a thorough analysis of the affinity of the two major search
engines, Google and Bing, along with DuckDuckGo, which goes to great
lengths to emphasize its privacy-friendly credentials. To do so, we
collected search results using a comprehensive set of 300 unique queries
for two time periods in 2016 and 2019, and developed a new similarity
metric that leverages both the content and the ranking of search
responses. We evaluated the characteristics of the metric against other
metrics and approaches that have been proposed in the literature, and
used it to (1) investigate the similarities of search engine results,
(2) the evolution of their affinity over time, (3) what aspects of the
results influence similarity, and (4) how the metric differs over
different kinds of search services. We found that Google stands apart,
but Bing and DuckDuckGo are largely indistinguishable from each other.