title: Energy and Run-Time Performance Practices in Software Engineering
presenter: Stefanos Georgiou
date: 2021-02-01
category: seminars

Energy efficiency for computer systems is an ever-growing matter that
has caught the attention of the software engineering community. Although
hardware design and utilization are undoubtedly key factors affecting
energy consumption, there is solid evidence that software design can
also significantly alter the energy consumption of IT products.
Therefore, the goal of this dissertation is to show the impact of
software design decisions on the energy consumption of a computer system.

Initially, we analyzed 92 research papers from top-tier conferences and
categorized them under the Software Development Life Cycle taxonomy.
From this study, we were able to find many research challenges.
Among these challenges, we identified that there is limited work in the
context of different programming languages’ energy and delay implications.

To this end, we performed an empirical study and pointed out which
programming languages can introduce better energy and run-time
performance for specific programming tasks and computer platforms (i.e.,
server, laptop, and embedded system). Motivated further by our survey
results, we performed an additional study on different programming
languages and computer platforms to demonstrate the energy and delay
implications of various inter-process communication technologies (i.e,
REST, RPC, gRPC).

From the above studies, we were able to introduce guidelines on
reducing the energy consumption of different applications by suggesting
which programming languages to utilise in specific cases. Finally, we
performed experiments to examine the energy and run-time performance
taxing that security measures have over 128 distinct benchmark suites.
By investigating the impact of CPU-related vulnerabilities (Meltdown,
Spectre, and MDS), communication-related security measures (HTTP/HTTPS),
memory protection (memory zeroing), and compiler safeguards (GCC), we
have found that these measures can impact the energy and run-time
performance of real-work applications (Nginx, Apache, Redis) by up to 20%.
