title: Guidelines for Improving Paper and Peer Review Quality
date: 2021-01-22
presenter: Diomidis Spinellis
category: seminars

Redesigning the peer review of software engineering studies can
improve the process's fairness, inclusiveness, transparency, and
effectiveness. group led by Paul Ralph, in which your presenter
participates, is developing empirical standards under the auspices of
ACM SIGSOFT. Today, when a scholar peer reviews a manuscript, they must
simultaneously generate and apply a set of evaluation criteria. The
problem is that generating an appropriate rubric for judging research
quality is mind-numbingly difficult. So reviewers tend to generate
incomplete, oversimplified and inappropriate criteria. It’s not
because reviewers are stupid; it’s because no one person can generate
good rubrics for all of the different kinds of studies SE researchers
review. Furthermore, the reviewers, the editor, and the authors may
construct totally different rubrics, and these rubrics may depart wildly
from published methodological guidance, or the norms of their scientific
community. Most frustration with the peer review process comes from
authors and reviewers disagreeing on what makes a study good. The
power imbalance between authors and reviewers makes correcting some
reviewers impossible. We need to change the process so that reviewers
all use the right criteria in the first place. The solution is for
the software engineering community to decide together what “good”
means. For each common methodology, we create a one-page checklist of
specific expectations. To prevent reviewers from using the standards
in an inflexible, gotcha-like manner, each criterion is paired with
a simple decision tree. When a reviewer indicates that a criterion is
not satisfied, they will be explicitly asked whether there is a good
reason. Providing the same, specific criteria to authors and reviewers
will improve research quality, simplify reviewing, reduce conflict and
increase acceptance rates. The presentation will introduce the taxonomy of
provided empirical standards, overview the general standard, which applies
to all reviews, and focus on one particular standard as an example.
