title: The SecOPERA Project
presenter: Panos Louridas, Dimitris Mitropoulos
date: 2022-09-08
category: seminars

The SecOPERA project (Secure Open-source softwarE and hardwaRe
Adaptable framework), which was recently accepted for funding by the
EU, aims at improving the security of Open Source solutions. It will
use a number of different approaches, contributed by the different
partners, in order to provide a functional toolbox for security
assessment.

SecOPERA will tackle the security problem by recognising that it can
be divided in four layers, all of which can be present in today's
systems:

1. Cognitive: attacks on systems using Machine Learning and Artificial
   Intelligence.
   
2. Network.

3. Software.

4. Hardware.

These different levels call for different techniques. For instance,
adversarial attacks on Neural Networks are very different from
vulnerabilities in IP (Intellectual Property) cores. Trying to prevent
attacks on software, and in particular system libraries, is not the
same as securing network devices or pieces of the network stack in an
operating system. That said, well-developed principles *can* apply to
the different levels and SecOPERA aims exactly at developing a
holistic solution, leveraging the knowledge brought by the different
partners of the project.

The partners will follow the SecOPERA Secure Flow, which will be
developed in detail in the project, and which will consist of the
following activities:

* *Decompose* an open source solution to its components, map them in
  the four layers described above, associate components with their
  source repositories, create dependency graphs.
  
* *Audit/Assess* by performing vulnerability scans both against known
  vulnerabilities and by using techniques that may indicate problems
  beyond those. 
  
* *Secure* by creating a pool of secure modules that will contain both
  secur*ed* components and tools for securing components.
  
* *Adapt* existing open source solutions by combining SecOPERA secure
  modules that can harden open source solutions with the actual
  audited components of an open source solution.
  
* *Update/Patch* open source software and hardware using formal
  verification mechanisms.

The SecOPERA approach will run for 36 months and will be validated
with two user-pilots, one concerning automotive software. The first
pilot involves partner Voxel from Austria who develops such software
and KTM, also from Austria, who embeds the software in the motorcycles
it produces. The second pilot involves Greencityzen, who offers an IoT
(Internet of Things) water management system.
