title: Data Virtual Machines: Simplifying Data Sharing, Exploration & Querying in Big Data Environments
presenter: Damianos Chatziantoniou
date: 2022-12-12
category: seminars

## Abstract
Today’s analytics environments are characterized
by a high degree of heterogeneity in terms of data systems,
formats and types of analysis. Many occasions call for rapid,
ad hoc, on demand construction of a data model that represents
(parts of) the data infrastructure of an organization, including
ML tasks. This data model is given to data scientists to play
with (express reports, build ML models, explore, etc.) We
present a novel graph-based conceptual model, the Data Virtual
Machine (DVM) representing data (persistent, transient, derived)
of an organization. A DVM can be built quickly and agilely,
offering schema flexibility. It is amenable to visual interfaces
for schema and query management. Dataframing, a frequent
preprocessing task, is usually carried out by experienced data
engineers employing Python or R: a procedural approach with
all the known drawbacks. Dataframes over DVMs are expressed
declaratively - and visually, via a simple and intuitive tool. This
way, non-IT experts can be involved in dataframing. In addition,
query evaluation takes place within an algebraic framework with
all the known benefits. I.e. a DVM enables the delegation of
data engineering tasks to simpler users. Finally, a DVM offers
a formalism that facilitates data sharing, data portability and a
single view of any entity – because a DVM’s node is an attribute
and an entity at the same time. In this respect, DVMs can
excellently serve as a data virtualization technique, an emerging
trend in the industry. We argue that DVMs can have a significant
practical impact in today’s big data environments.
