title: Abstractions for Software Testing
presenter: Thodoris Sotiropoulos
date: 2022-10-03
category: seminars


Developers and practitioners spend 
considerable amount of their time
in testing their software and fixing software bugs. 
To do so more effectively,
they automate the process of finding deep software bugs
that are challenging to uncover via manually-written test cases
by integrating automated bug-finding tools
in the software development process.
A challenge of automated bug detection
is the identification of subtle and latent defects
in software that involves complex functionality.
This is because such bugs are easy to remain unnoticed
as the software under test
does not complain with warnings
or other runtime failures (e.g., crashes)
during its execution.
Worse,
subtle defects often confuse users
who do not blame the buggy software
for the unexpected behavior,
because they believe that the error is from their side
(e.g., wrong input is given).
Another shortcoming of many existing bug-finding tools
is their limited applicability.
Indeed,
many of them are tailored to specific piece of software.
This lack of applicability is mainly attributed to
fundamental issues related to the design of the underlying methods.

To tackle the aforementioned issues,
this thesis investigates ways for improving
the effectiveness and applicability of automated software testing
by introducing different forms of abstractions in testing workflow.
The aim of these abstractions
is to provide a common platform 
for reasoning and identification of (subtle) bugs
in software systems and programs that exhibit dissimilar interfaces,
implementations,
or semantics.
The thesis demonstrates this concept by applying abstractions
in the context of three important
problems:
the detection of (1) compiler typing bugs,
(2) bugs in data-centric software,
and (3) dependency bugs in file system resources.
This is achieved through the design and development
of three bug-finding tools:
Hephaestus, Cynthia, and FSMoVe respectively.

The work presented in this thesis improved the reliability
of well-established and critical software
used by millions of users and applications.
Overall,
our bug-finding techniques and tools led to the disclosure and fix
of more than 400 bugs found in complex software systems,
such as the Java and the Groovy compilers,
the Django web framework,
or dozens of popular configuration management libraries
used for managing critical infrastructures
(e.g., the Apache server).
This thesis exhibits practical impact on the software industry,
and opens new research opportunities related to 
the application of programming language concepts to
automated software testing and software reliability.
