title: Software Engineering Education Knowledge versus Industrial Needs
presenter: Giorgos Liargovas and Angeliki Papadopoulou
date: 2022-05-16
category: seminars

Contribution: Determine and analyze the gap between software
practitioners' education outlined in the 2014 IEEE/ACM Software
Engineering Education Knowledge (SEEK) and industrial needs
pointed by Wikipedia articles referenced in Stack Overflow (SO) posts.

Background: Previous work has uncovered deficiencies in the
coverage of computer fundamentals, people skills, software
processes, and human-computer interaction, suggesting rebalancing.

Research Questions: 1) To what extent are developers' needs, in
terms of Wikipedia articles referenced in SO posts, covered by the
SEEK knowledge units?  2) How does the popularity of Wikipedia
articles relate to their SEEK coverage?  3) What areas of
computing knowledge can be better covered by the SEEK knowledge
units?  4) Why are Wikipedia articles covered by the SEEK
knowledge units cited on SO?

Methodology: Wikipedia articles were systematically collected from
SO posts.  The most cited were manually mapped to the SEEK
knowledge units, assessed according to their degree of coverage.
 Articles insufficiently covered by the SEEK were classified by
hand using the 2012 ACM Computing Classification System.  A sample
of posts referencing sufficiently covered articles was manually
analyzed.  A survey was conducted on software practitioners to
validate the study findings.

Findings: SEEK appears to cover sufficiently computer science
fundamentals, software design and mathematical concepts, but less
so areas like the World Wide Web, software engineering components,
and computer graphics.  Developers seek advice, best practices and
explanations about software topics, and code review assistance.
 Future SEEK models and the computing education could dive deeper
in information systems, design, testing, security, and soft skills.
