title: Machine Learning for Software Engineering: Current State, Opportunities, and Challenges
presenter: Tushar Sharma, Dalhousie University
date: 2023-10-16
category: seminars

Machine Learning (ML) has emerged as a transformative force across various domains, and Software Engineering is no exception. In this talk, we will explore how ML is currently being applied in software engineering, delve into the exciting opportunities it offers, and discuss the key challenges that must be overcome to unlock its full potential. Using a recently completed survey paper as a reference, Tushar will discuss the fine-grained tasks, tools, and techniques for applying ML in various software engineering tasks. Tushar will provide an overview of the recent research studies from his lab in this direction. The talk will offer an opportunity to discuss the rapidly changing software engineering landscape due to recent disruptive advancements in ML.

Tushar Sharma is an assistant professor at Dalhousie University, Canada. The topics related to software design and architecture, refactoring, software code quality, technical debt, and machine learning for software engineering (ML4SE) define his career interests.
He earned a PhD from Athens University of Economics and Business, Athens, Greece, specializing in software engineering in May 2019. Earlier, he obtained an MS in Computer Science from the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, Chennai, India. His professional experience includes working with Siemens Research (formally, Siemens Technology), Charlotte, USA for approximately two years (2019-2021) as well as Siemens Corporate Technology, Bangalore, India for more than seven years (2008-2015). He was the principal investigator for MINDSIGHT team of DARPA AMP program consisting of researchers from Siemens, JHU/APL, BAE systems, and UC Irvine. He co-authored Refactoring for Software Design Smells: Managing Technical Debt and two Oracle Java certification books. He founded and developed Designite which is a software design quality assessment tool used by many practitioners and researchers worldwide. He is an IEEE Senior Member.
