title: AI Open Seminar, Exploring Trustworthiness and Self-Supervised Learning in Artificial Intelligence!
date: 2023-11-29
presenter: Stafilakis Themos-AUEB, Dimitris Apostolou-UniPi
category: seminars
time: 18:00 - 21:00

Adaptive and Personalised Education System using AI:  
Exploring the process of designing an AI-powered system to tailor educational experiences to the unique needs of each student. By leveraging advanced algorithms and data analysis, the system adapts learning pathways, pace, and methods of experimental activities in online STEM labs and delivers targeted feedback based on real-time student performance to match individual capabilities and preferences, aiming to enhance engagement, understanding, and overall academic success. This approach emphasizes a student-centered approach, supporting critical thinking and problem-solving skills.


Deep and Self-Supervised Learning in Voice Technologies-Stafilakis Themos: 
Voice technologies are revolutionizing how we interact with machines, and at their core are breakthroughs in deep and self-supervised learning. This session unveils the latest advancements driving smarter, more intuitive voice applications. Discover how these innovations are unlocking new possibilities for businesses and redefining user experiences.

Speaker Bios: 
Themos Stafylakis is an Associate Professor at the Athens University of Economics and Business and a voice recognition expert. He holds a PhD from NTUA and has conducted postdoctoral research in Canada and the UK. Since 2018, he has led the machine learning and voice biometrics departments at Omilia. He is also a collaborating researcher with the "Athena" Research Center. His work focuses on advancing voice and speaker recognition technologies.

Dr. Dimitris Apostolou is a Professor in the Informatics Department at the University of Piraeus and a Senior Researcher at the Institute of Communication and Computer Systems. He holds a PhD from NTUA and advanced degrees from UCL and NJIT. With over 140 publications and 3 best paper awards, his research focuses on decision support, knowledge management, and intelligent information systems. He has participated in more than 30 European R&D projects and has a decade of experience in management and technology consulting. He also serves on the editorial boards of international journals and contributes to major conferences worldwide.

A seminar series powered by UniAI






