title: Reordering Shell Script Execution for Enhanced Performance
presenter: Georgios Liargkovas, AUEB and Brown University
date: 2024-06-12
time: 16:30
category: seminars

The execution order of shell scripts is determined by their syntax, thus missing key optimization opportunities routinely available in single-language runtime environments.
hS is a new system that exploits the potential for non-linear execution in shell scripts, executing components speculatively out of order by inferring—and complying with—their runtime dependencies during their execution.
To achieve this, hS introduces a new system-call monitor that collects ordering and effect constraints, a lightweight container that controls the order and application of side effects, a formally verified streaming scheduler that executes components within a window of speculation while respecting their ordering constraints, and several runtime optimizations for speculation and application of side effects.
Applying hS to a large and diverse set of shell scripts yields a ~2x speedup for free (i.e. without any extra code or annotations).

#### Biography
Georgios Liargkovas will be pursuing a PhD in OS scheduling and cloud computing, with a focus on distributed and serverless architectures, at Columbia University, advised by Prof. Kostis Kaffes. He graduated with a Bachelor's degree in Software Engineering and Data Science from the Department of Management Science and Technology at Athens University of Economics and Business. Since 2020, he has been a research assistant at BALab, concentrating on empirical software engineering and mining software repositories studies. He is also an affiliate researcher at Brown University’s Atlas Systems Group, engaged in advancing shell-script parallelization. His research interests include system design and optimization, particularly through the application of machine learning techniques. Outside academia, he is passionate about long-distance running, cycling, and music.
