title: Catching bugs with Mutation Testing
presenter: Mike Papadakis, University of Luxembourg
date: 2024-01-10
category: seminars

Mutation testing realises the idea of injecting and
observing the consequences of artificially seeded faults in given
systems. The approach is powerful as it allows revealing real faults,
identifying weaknesses, simulating the effects of failures, estimating
systems robustness and performing controlled studies. Mutation testing
has reached a maturity phase and gradually gains popularity both in
academia and in industry. This talk will present the main concepts,
will introduce the key advances and will discuss open challenges and
future research directions around mutation testing.

#### Biography
Mike Papadakis is an Associate Professor at the
University of Luxembourg where he leads the SERVAL (SEcurity,
Reasoning and VALidation) research team. His research interests
include software testing, code analysis and artificial inteligence for
software engineering. He is best known for his work on Mutation
Testing for which he has been awarded IEEE TCSE Rising Star Award
2020. He has been General Chair of the ACM SIGSOFT ISSTA 2025 and IEEE
ICSME 2021 and Program Chair of SSBSE 2021 and IEEE ICST 2022. He also
serves at the editorial and review boards of international Software
Engineering journals (STVR, Empirical Software Engineering, ACM
Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology) and has
co-authored of more than 100 publications in international
peer-reviewed conferences and journals. His work has been supported by
Facebook, FNR, CETREL (SIX group company), BGL (BNP Paribas),
Microsoft and PayPal.
