title: Security in a World of Software Supply-Chain Vulnerabilities
presenter: Nikos Vasilakis, Brown University
date: 2024-05-20
time: 13:00
category: seminars

Modern software incorporates thousands of third-party components. Bugs
or security vulnerabilities in these components can seriously
compromise the integrity of incorporating applications. Because of
their widespread use, and the difficulty of vetting the enormous
number of integrated components for vulnerabilities, they comprise a
compelling target for attackers, who purposefully insert
vulnerabilities into widely used components with the goal of
compromising the integrity of entire software ecosystems. I will
present a series of systems that leverage component boundaries to
offer automated solutions to vulnerabilities that appear in the
software component supply chain. These solutions leverage system- and
language-level containment techniques to prevent different classes of
attacks from affecting these applications and the broader system in
which they execute. Combined, they provide a holistic and in-depth
transformation-based approach to securing entire software ecosystems.

#### Biography
Nikos Vasilakis is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at Brown
University. His research encompasses systems, programming languages,
and security — and has been recognized by several distinguished paper
awards. His current focus is on automatically transforming systems to add
new capabilities such as parallelism, distribution, and security — against
a variety of threat models. Nikos is also the chair of the Technical Steering
Committee behind PaSh, a shell-script optimization system hosted by the
Linux Foundation. More: https://nikos.vasilak.is
