title: PyTrim: A Practical Tool for Reducing Python Dependency Bloat
presenter: Konstantinos Karakatsanis
date: 2025-10-20
time: 17:30
category: seminars

Dependency bloat is a persistent challenge in Python projects, which increases maintenance costs and security risks. While numerous tools exist for detecting unused dependencies in Python, removing these dependencies across the source code and configuration files of a project requires manual effort and expertise.
To tackle this challenge we introduce PYTRIM, an end-to-end system to automate this process. PYTRIM eliminates unused imports and package declarations across a variety of file types, including Python source and configuration files such as requirements.txt and setup.py. PYTRIM’s modular design makes it agnostic to the source of dependency bloat information, enabling integration with any detection tool. Beyond its contribution when it comes to automation, PYTRIM also incorporates a novel dynamic analysis component that improves dependency detection recall.
Our evaluation of PYTRIM’s end-to-end effectiveness on a ground-truth dataset of 37 merged pull requests from prior work, shows that PYTRIM achieves 98.3% accuracy in replicating human-made changes. To show its practical impact, we run PYTRIM on 971 open-source packages, identifying and trimming bloated dependencies in 39 of them. For each case, we submit a corresponding pull request, 6 of which have already been accepted and merged. PYTRIM is available as an open-source project, encouraging community contributions and further development.
