title: Test-based Patch Clustering for Automatically-Generated Patches Assessment
date: 2025-02-07
presenter: Maria Kechagia, UoA
category: seminars
time: 17:30

Previous studies have shown that Automated Program Repair (APR) techniques
suffer from the overfitting problem. Overfitting happens when a patch is
run and the test suite does not reveal any error, but the patch actually
does not fix the underlying bug or it introduces a new defect that is not
covered by the test suite. Therefore, the patches generated by APR tools
need to be validated by human programmers, which can be very costly, and
prevents APR tool adoption in practice. Our work aims to minimize the
number of plausible patches that programmers have to review, thereby
reducing the time required to find a correct patch. We introduce a novel
light-weight test-based patch clustering approach called xTestCluster,
which clusters patches based on their dynamic behavior. xTestCluster is
applied after the patch generation phase in order to analyze the generated
patches from one or more repair tools and to provide more information
about those patches or facilitating patch assessment. The novelty of
xTestCluster lies in using information from execution of newly generated
test cases to cluster patches generated by multiple APR approaches. A
cluster is formed of patches that fail on the same generated test cases.
The output from xTestCluster gives developers a) a way of reducing the
number of patches to analyze, as they can focus on analyzing a sample of
patches from each cluster, b) additional information (new test cases and
their results) attached to each patch. After analyzing 902 plausible
patches from 21 Java APR tools, our results show that xTestCluster is able
to reduce the number of patches to review and analyze with a median of
50%. xTestCluster can save a significant amount of time for developers
that have to review the multitude of patches generated by APR
tools, and provides them with new test cases that expose the differences
in behavior between generated patches. Moreover, xTestCluster can
complement other patch assessment techniques that help detect patch
misclassification

URL: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10664-024-10503-2

Preprint: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2207.11082


#### Biography
Dr Maria Kechagia is an Assistant Professor in Software Engineering at the
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens within the Department of
Business Administration. From May 2019 to November 2014, she was a
research fellow at University College London, in the UK. Previously, she
was a postdoctoral researcher at the Delft University of Technology, in
the Netherlands. She obtained a PhD degree from the Athens University of
Economics and Business and an MSc degree from Imperial College London. Her
research interests include software verification (static and dynamic
analysis), automated program repair, software analytics, and software
optimisation (energy efficiency and runtime performance). She has been a
programme committee member of the research track of top software
engineering venues including ICSE, FSE, ASE, ISSTA, MSR, ICSME, ESEM, and
SANER, and a reviewer for top software engineering journals including TSE,
TOSEM, EMSE, and JSS. She is a member of the editorial board of TSE.
