title: New Insights and Perspectives on Software Reliability, Analysis, and Security
presenter: Thodoris Sotiropoulos, ETH
date: 2025-09-24
time: 17:00
category: seminars

I will present the research directions our team pursued
during the academic year 2024--2025 in the areas of software reliability, analysis,
and security. For software reliability, we developed new methods to validate
(i.e., find bugs) critical software infrastructure, focusing on (1) static analyzers
which are widely used throughout the software development pipeline and (2)
Infrastructure as Code (IaC) programs, which are routinely used to automate the
provisioning and management of entire of computing infrastructures and servers.

For software analysis and security, we investigated the security challenges of
applications that combine high-level languages (e.g., Python, JavaScript) with
low-level components (e.g., C, Rust). We introduced techniques to automatically
identify and reason about the bridges between these languages. This enables powerful
cross-language analyses such as vulnerability detection and reachability analysis
in hybrid programs. Finally, we investigated an emerging domain: the effect of compiler
optimizations on Zero-Knowledge Virtual Machines (zkVMs). zkVMs are becoming foundational
in privacy-preserving and verifiable computation. Therefore, understanding the limitations of
existing compiler infrastructures on zkVM performance opens new research directions,
including the development of zkVM-specific passes, backends, and superoptimizers.
